FINAL PROJECT: CHADA TECH
1. Demonstrate how the various roles on your Scrum-agile Team specifically
contributed to the success of the SNHU Travel project. Be sure to use specific
examples from your experiences.
Our team consisted of 4 team members working on the SNHU Travel Project. The four
roles are Scrum Master, Product Owner, Tester, and a developer. The product owner
would discuss what SNHU wanted to be done and or changed. A great example of this is
when SNHU looked to update their website to show detox/wellness as being the next big
thing. The developer emphatically asked, if everything has to be changed? The Product
Owner calmed the developer telling her that everything wouldn’t need to be changed and
that is where the tester let the team know he would have no problem providing some new
test cases that would focus on the changes. This is where me, the SCRUM Master, asked
the team if these changes would align with the current schedule set out and if any delays
would happen. This showed how the team worked cohesively to implement these changes
without missing a beat.
2. Describe how a Scrum-agile approach to the SDLC helped each of the user stories
come to completion. Be sure to use specific examples from your experiences.
The Scrum-agile approach allowed the SNHU team to make changes quickly without
having a major impact or for that matter any impact at all on the end results. A great
example of a change that was needed to be done based off of a user story, is User #1
wanting the SNHU Travel site to have a top destinations list. The team was seamlessly
able to incorporate the changes, and all because of Agile. These changes were mainly
able to be made based off of the user stories particularly through the hard work of the
tester and the developer being able to adapt to the changes the Product Owner dictated.
3. Describe how a Scrum-agile approach supported project completion when the
project was interrupted and changed direction. Be sure to use specific examples from
your experiences.
Back to my first example of the Product Owner asking the team to incorporate
detox/wellness into the site. The team was able to pick right up because of the ease of
Agile and its ability to allow changes to be made mid project. The tester immediately had
a strategy and did not look flustered at all with the mid project change. This just shows
how Agile is superior to the Waterfall Method, being able to make changes on the fly
without affecting scheduling is priceless in the long and short terms.
4. Demonstrate your ability to communicate effectively with your team by providing
samples of your communication. Be sure to explain why your examples were effective
in their context and how they encouraged collaboration among team members.
As the SCRUM Master, I used Daily Scrum meetings as my most effective tool in
communicating with my team. Having the ability to see where my team currently stands
from a progress standpoint was extremely valuable to me to see if we can keep the
schedule moving forward. Being able to collect daily information from the team, this
enables me to see what each team member may need, whether it be guidance or telling a
team member to shift their focus to something else and backlog what they’re currently
working on. This allows the team to actually feel like a team that is leaning on one
another to finish with the best possible product possible. Shifting back to when SNHU
Travel asked the team to implement a major change mid project. It is my job to
communicate what everyone’s new focus should be to accomplish the change in a timely
manner. At the beginning of the project I would also make sure I do a sprint planning
which would give the team a path in which to take to accomplish our goals as a team.
5. Evaluate the organizational tools and Scrum-agile principles that helped your
team be successful. Be sure to reference the Scrum events in relation to the effectiveness
of the tools.
The biggest thing that helped our team be successful is User stories. I am a firm believer
that customer’s (users) can offer valuable information to the team and what should be
expected with our end product. Understanding that is the key to our team’s success. Then
I would say Sprint Backlogs that go hand in hand with user stories, which enables the
team to communicate efficiently through collaboration. These organization tools are
what makes Scrum-agile principles effective in producing high quality products quickly.
Being able to adapt to changes is a main principle that Agile allows a team to accomplish
seamlessly. More importantly the more a team works together the better they become and
the better the end results become as well.
6. Assess the effectiveness of the Scrum-agile approach for the SNHU Travel project.
Be sure to address each of the following:
○ Describe the pros and cons that the Scrum-agile approach presented during the
project.
○ Determine whether or not a Scrum-agile approach was the best approach for the
SNHU Travel development project.
Pros: The pros of being able to use a Scrum-agile approach for the SNHU Travel are
communication, being able to make changes in the middle of a project, and being able to
produce a finished product quickly and efficiently, and being able to adapt quickly to
changes.
Cons: There are not many glaring cons when using a Scrum-agile approach. One that
directly comes to mind is figuring out the learning curve when joining a team, where a
new team member may not pick up as quickly to what the team needs. When using
Scrum-agile with bigger teams this can lead to issues as well, because each project is
different and complex.
But when it comes to the team working on the SNHU Travel, I do firmly believe that
Scrum-agile was the best method to use because having a smaller team and the approach
allows the team to work together closely. Especially given how many changes SNHU
Travel asked the team to implement this would not have been possible if the team were
say using a waterfall method instead
